2020-11-20 SSHFS Design
=======================

Overview
--------

I have now decided to disable GUI on most of my test VM images in order to save
on memory usage. I am using SSHFS to mount remote home directories without the
administrative overhead of either NFS or AUTOFS.

AUTOFS will stil be used for software installations because the remote
directories are on a NAS.

An additional script was created to convert a file of text into an unordered
list of links in MarkDown format.

Table of Contents
=================

* [References](#references)
* [Design Decisions](#design-decisions)
  * [Name of Script](#name-of-script)
  * [Script Location](#script-location)
  * [Directory Structure](#directory-structure)
* [Convert to TOC](#convert-to-toc)

References
==========

* [Using SSHFS to Mount Remote Directories](https://www.linode.com/docs/guides/using-sshfs-on-linux/)


Design Decisions
================

Name of Script
--------------

I chose `mount_over_ssh.sh` because it is a simple functional description. No
alternatives were considered.

Script Location
---------------

The __local\_utilities__ repository was chosen because this is a general script
that does not relate to any specific project.

Directory Structure
-------------------

I chose to locate the mount points within `~/mount` because that is most easily
accessible by me, and the name is suggestive enough.

The subdirectories are all based on the short host name because all of my mounts
are within the same domain.

Convert to TOC
==============

I created a script, called `convert_to_md_toc.sed`, which converts a file with
lines similar to the following:
```
References
Design Decisions
  Name of Script
  Script Location
  Directory Structure
Convert to TOC
```
into:
```markdown
* [References](#references)
* [Design Decisions](#design-decisions)
  * [Name of Script](#name-of-script)
  * [Script Location](#script-location)
  * [Directory Structure](#directory-structure)
* [Convert to TOC](#convert-to-toc)
```

The choice of a `sed` script was for ease of implementation as I am familar with
`sed` and did not want to write a MarkDown parser in order to read a MarkDown
file and create a table of contents from the headers in the text.

There is an inconvenience in which a separate file has to be maintained while a
MarkDown file is built. I thought this was a fair trade-off.

