2020-11-16 AutoFS Design
========================

Overview
--------

I want to replace hard NFS mounts with automatic ones using AUTOFS.

Table of Contents
=================

* [Design Options](#design-options)
  * [Option 1: Using Hard Mounts](#option-1-using-hard-mounts)
  * [Option 2: Using AutoFS](#option-2-using-autofs)
* [Other Design Decisions](#other-design-decisions)
  * [Repository Location](#repository-location)
  * [Script Name](#script-name)

Design Options
==============

For mounting directories on my NAS, there are two (2) options:
1. Using hard mounts through `/etc/fstab`
2. Using AutoFS

Option 1: Using Hard Mounts
---------------------------

Using hard mounts coded in `/etc/fstab` had been my default approach for
accessing directories on my NAS. I had coded this approach directly in my
Ansible scripts. Thus, these mounts are scattered across several repositories.

I could factor out this NFS mounting into a central location.

The disadvantage of using this approach is that the power schedule of my NAS
prevents hosts frok booting outside of this schedule.

Option 2: Using AutoFS
----------------------

AutoFS mounts NAS directories when they are accessed, and unmounts them after
a period of inactivity.

This is a better approach because I do not need these NAS directories to be
mounted at all times.

Other Design Decisions
======================

Repository Location
-------------------

I chose the __local\_utilities__ repository because this functionality does not
reside anywhere else in my current set of repositories.

This is a bad design decision but I did not want to create a whole new repository
just for one script.

Script Name
-----------

The name of __auto\_mount\_narrabri.yml__ was chosen because it gives some sense
of what the script is supposed to do. I did not consider any alternatives.
