# 2023-10-27: Create TOC for README.md

## Summary

I need a script to automate the creation of a table of contents (TOC) to be included into `README.md` file. This entry details the design decisions made in the development of such a script.

## Table of Contents

* [Purpose](#purpose)
* [Choice of Name](#choice-of-name)
* [Languages Chosen](#languages-chosen)
* [Restrictions](#restrictions)
  * [Regular Expressions](#regular-expressions)
  * [Extraction of Level One Header](#extraction-of-level-one-header)
  * [Avoid File Globbing](#avoid-file-globbing)

## Purpose

I use the `README.md` in the `design_journal` directories of my various GIT projects to provide a diary of design decisions made. These design decisions are identified by date in the file name (`yyyy_mm_dd.md`) so as to allow automated ordering and to give an indication of progress and activity.

The level one (1) heading is reproduced to the TOC of the `README.md` file.

The automation is needed because I have found my manual maintenance to deficient with incorrect and missing TOC entries.

## Choice of Name

The following names were considered:

1. `create_to_md_toc.sh` was the first choice. However, I already had a script called `convert_to_md_toc.sed` which does a completely different function. The similarity in names is very likely to cause confusion.
1. `create_readme_toc.sh` was the name chosen because it included three (3) essential elements (`create`, `readme`, and `toc`). The verb indicates creation of something. However, the other words may be ambiguous.

## Languages Chosen

I chose the following languages:

* `bash` because I am most familar with this language for the main body of the script.
* `sed` because I am also familar with this language for the text manipulation. I regard `bash` inadequate in this regard.

## Restrictions

### Regular Expressions

I chose to use the `-E` option for `sed` as this allowed me to easily extract the required information from the level one (1) header. This means that this script cannot be used with earlier versions of `sed`.

### Extraction of Level One Header

I assume that the first line of the file is the level one (1) header. This assumption is necessary because markdown has two (2) methods of identifying level (1) headers.

### Avoid File Globbing

I use `find` instead of file globbing to handle file names with embedded spaces. Because I am using `find`, I needed to use the `-maxdepth 1` to avoid complications with subdirectories.
